But the difficult part was to hear your own family. My children, I can only, I've always
called them my children, I can't help it. My children never cried unless they were hungry.
And when they cried they were hungry. I couldn't tolerate this. So after a while I went to the
superintendent. I must explain first that I had long blonde plaits and blue eyes. My
brother also was fair. We didn't look very Jewish. And I decided that we were going shopping.
So I went to the superintendent and said, please can I have some money? I wanted to know why. I
said my children are hungry. I want to go shopping. So we did. We went to different parts of town.
Because normally we weren't allowed out of the orphanage gates. We went to different parts of
town and we shopped. And the two little children with an enormous basket full of necessities of
life. And we knew the necessities. And we got away with it for about two months. And we suddenly
found we were followed by Nazi youths. And they caught us one day and beat us and took our basket.
And literally threw us into the gates of the orphanage and called us all the vile names they
could lay tongue to. And the superintendent said, you know, that's it, no more. For a while that was
it, no more. Until I could no longer bear to hear my children cry. I went to the superintendent.
Excuse me.
And I said, please can I have some money?
Oh, she said, not going out again. I said, if you don't give me money, I will steal it.
I was a very obstinate child and I still am. She looked me straight behind and said,
I believe you would. She gave me money. We went out to the little gate on the other side.
But we didn't get away with it for very long.
After a few weeks somebody must have followed us again. This time we were caught by the Gestapo
and beaten with truncheons. Sorry. My brother was eight and I was nine.
And ever since I've had 240 kidneys,
we've been TEACHED that
grown men who age of nine years, and the symptoms of blood abscess,